"Text"@"Title"@"Group"
" A Chinese palace is an imperial complex where the court, civil government, royal garden and defensive fortress resided. Its structures are considerable and elaborate. The Chinese character Gong 宮; meaning palace represents two connected rooms 呂 under a roof 宀. Originally the character applied to any residence or mansion, but  it was used in reference to solely the imperial residence since the Qin dynasty 3rd century BC. A traditional Chinese palace comprises multiple buildings arranged within expansive walled and moated compounds. It contains large halls 殿 for ceremonies and official functions, along with smaller structures such as temples, towers, residences, galleries, courtyards, gardens, and auxiliary buildings. The world's largest palace to have ever existed, the Weiyang Palace, was built by the Western Han dynasty on the order of the Emperor Gaozu. The world's largest palace currently still in existence, the Forbidden City, was constructed by the Ming dynasty during the reign of the Yongle Emperor.    Main imperial palaces, in chronological order   Xianyang Palace 咸陽宮, in Qin Xianyang 咸陽, now 15 km9 miles east of modern Xianyang, Shaanxi province: this was the royal palace of the state of Qin before the Chinese unification, and then the palace of the First Emperor when China was unified. Burnt down by Xiang Yu after the fall of the Qin dynasty. Epang Palace 阿房宮 - probable meaning: The Palace on the Hill, 20 km12 miles south of Qin Xianyang 咸陽, now 15 km9 miles west of Xi'an 西安, Shaanxi province: the imperial palace built by the First Emperor in replacement of Xianyang Palace. Traditionally said to be burnt down by Xiang Yu, but may not have been completed at the fall of the Qin dynasty. Weiyang Palace 未央宮 - The Endless Palace, in Han Chang'an 長安, now 7 km4 miles northeast of downtown Xi'an 西安, Shaanxi province: imperial palace of the Western Han dynasty for two centuries. This is the largest palace ever built on Earth, covering 4.8 km2 1,200 acres, which is 6.7 times the size of the Forbidden City, or 11 times the size of the Vatican City. Used after the Han dynasty, rebuilt in the Tang dynasty. Southern Palace 南宮 and Northern Palace 北宮, in Luoyang 洛陽, Henan province: imperial palaces of the Eastern Han dynasty for two centuries, the Southern Palace being used for court hearings and audiences, the Northern Palace being the private residence of the emperor and his concubines. Demolished by Dong Zhuo at the end of the Han dynasty. Taiji Palace 太極宮 - Palace of the Supreme Ultimate, also known as the Western Apartments 西内, in Tang Chang'an 長安, now downtown Xi'an 西安, Shaanxi province: imperial palace during the Sui dynasty who called it Daxing Palace - 大興宮, Palace of Great Prosperity and in the beginning of the Tang dynasty until A.D. 663. Area: 4.2 km2 1,040 acres, imperial section proper: 1.92 km2 474 acres. Daming Palace 大明宮 - Palace of the Great Brightness, also known as the Eastern Apartments 東内, in Tang Chang'an 長安, now downtown Xi'an 西安, Shaanxi province: imperial palace of the Tang dynasty after A.D. 663 it was briefly named Penglai Palace 蓬萊宮 between 663 and 705, but the Taiji Palace remained in use for major state ceremonies such as coronations. Area: 3.11 km2 768 acres, almost 4.5 times the size of the Forbidden City. Kaifeng Imperial Palace 東京大内皇宮, in Dongjing 東京, now called Kaifeng 開封, Henan province: imperial palace of the Northern Song dynasty. Hangzhou Imperial Palace 臨安大内禁宮, in Lin'an 臨安, now called Hangzhou 杭州, Zhejiang province: imperial palace of the Southern Song dynasty, located at the Phoenix Mountain. Karakorum 哈拉和林, site of the imperial palace of the Mongol Empire. Shangdu 元上都 and Khanbaliq 元大都, locations of the imperial palaces of the Yuan dynasty. Ming Imperial Palace 明故宮, in Nanjing 南京, Jiangsu province: imperial palace of the Ming dynasty until 1421. Used as a source of stone and gradually demolished in the Qing dynasty and by the Taiping rebels. Forbidden City 紫禁城, now known in China as the Beijing Gugong 北京故宫, in Beijing 北京: imperial palace of the Ming dynasty and Qing dynasty from 1420 until 1924. Area: 720,000 m2  178 acres. The Forbidden City is the world's largest palace currently in existence. Imperial Palace Manchukuo 帝宮, now known as Museum of the Imperial Palace of Manchukuo 伪满皇宫博物院, in Changchun 长春: imperial palace of the Manchukuo.    Other palaces  Apart from the main imperial palace, Chinese dynasties also had several other imperial palaces in the capital city where the empress, crown prince, or other members of the imperial family dwelled. There also existed palaces outside of the capital city called away palaces 離宮 where the emperors resided when traveling.    Imperial gardens  The habit also developed of building garden estates in the countryside surrounding the capital city, where the emperors retired at times to get away from the rigid etiquette of the imperial palace, or simply to escape from the summer heat inside their capital. This practice reached a zenith with the Qing dynasty, whose emperors built the fabulous Imperial Gardens 御園, now known in China as the Gardens of Perfect Brightness 圓明園, and better known in English as the Old Summer Palace. The emperors of the Qing dynasty resided and worked in the Imperial Gardens, 8 km5 miles outside of the walls of Beijing, the Forbidden City inside Beijing being used only for formal ceremonies. These gardens were made up of three gardens: the Garden of Perfect Brightness proper, the Garden of Eternal Spring 長春園, and the Elegant Spring Garden 綺春園; they covered a huge area of 3.5 km2 865 acres, almost 5 times the size of the Forbidden City, and 8 times the size of the Vatican City.  comprising hundreds of halls, pavilions, temples, galleries, gardens, lakes, etc. Several famous landscapes of southern China had been reproduced in the Imperial Gardens, hundreds of invaluable Chinese art masterpieces and antiquities were stored in the halls, making the Imperial Gardens one of the largest museums in the world. Some unique copies of literary work and compilations were also stored inside the Imperial Gardens. In 1860, during the Second Opium War, the British and French expeditionary forces looted the Old Summer Palace. Then on October 18, 1860, in order to punish the imperial court, which had refused to allow Western embassies inside Beijing, the British general Lord Elgin- with protestations from the French - purposely ordered the torching of this massive complex which burned to the ground. It took 3500 British troops to set the entire place ablaze and took three whole days to burn. The burning of the Gardens of Perfect Brightness is still a very sensitive issue in China today. Following this cultural catastrophe, the imperial court was forced to relocate to the old and austere Forbidden City where it stayed until 1924, when the Last Emperor was expelled by a republican army.    Summer Palace  Empress dowager Cixi 慈禧太后 built the Summer Palace or Yiheyuan 頤和園 - The Garden of Nurtured Harmony near the Old Summer Palace, but on a much smaller scale than the Old Summer Palace.    More palaces  Some other palaces include:  Beihai and Zhongnanhai in Beijing Mukden Palace in Shenyang Mountain Resort at Chengde Taicheng in Nanjing Genyue in Kaifeng Changle Palace in Chang'an Shanglinyuan in Chang'an Xingqing Palace in Chang'an Potala Palace in Lhasa was used by the Dalai Lama Recently, Chinese archaeologists have announced that they have found the ruins of an ancient Chinese palace in Dadiwan.    See also   Historical capitals of China Chinese architecture    References"@"Chinese palace"@"Group2"   
"Shanxi architecture, or Shansi architecture, or Jin architecture, refers to the architectural style of the Shanxi province in northern China. Shanxi has preserved numerous ancient architectures scattered throughout the province. All of the three remaining wooden structures preserved from Tang dynasty in China are found in Shanxi. The old buildings of Pingyao ancient city and numerous family compounds of Shanxi merchants in the Ming and Qing dynasties are representative of the architecture styles of vernacular architecture in North China. Religious temples in Mount Wutai and Yungang Grottoes in Datong exemplify the sacred buddhist architecture in China.    Pre-Tang architecture  Traditional Chinese architecture are mostly of wooden structure, yet there are no wooden architectures before Tang dynasty persevered in China. However, some grottoes and tomb paintings and other related archaeological evidences elucidate the ancient architectural styles of Shanxi before the Tang dynasty. Yungang Grottoes in Datong illustrate rock-cut architecture dating back to the Northern Wei dynasty. Tianlongshan Grottoes in Taiyuan was constructed over a number of centuries, as early as the Northern Qi dynasty.    Tang architecture  The oldest preserved wooden structures in China are found in Shanxi. The three preserved Tang architectures are Foguang Temple and Nanchan Temple in Mount Wutai, Five Dragons Temple in Ruicheng County. Among these three surviving Tang architectures, Foguang Temple is the best preserved, partly due to its remote location outside of the central areas surrounded by the five mountains of Mount Wutai.    Five Dynasties architecture  Tiantai Temple, Great Buddha Hall in Dayun Temple, Longmen Temple West Side Hall in Changzhi, and Zhenguo Temple Ten Thousand Buddhas Hall in Pingyao were constructed during the Five Dynasties.    Song architecture  Jinci temple in Taiyuan is one of the most prominent temples in Shanxi, and the oldest surviving architecture in Taiyuan—the Goddess Temple was constructed from 1023 to 1032 during the Song dynasty.     Liao and Jin architecture  The Buddhist Texts Library of the Huayan Temple in Datong was established in 1038, during the Liao dynasty 907–1125. The Mahavira Hall of the Huayan Temple in Datong was originally built in the Liao dynasty, but was rebuilt in 1140 during the Jin dynasty. It is nine-room wide, five-room deep and covers an area of 1,559-square-metre 16,780 sq ft. It is the largest architecture in China built during the Liao and Jin dynasties. The Sakyamuni Pagoda of Fogong Temple in Ying County, Shuozhou, also known as Yingxian Muta was built in 1056 during the Liao dynasty. It has survived several large earthquakes throughout the centuries. It is the oldest existent fully wooden pagoda still standing in China. The Amitabha Hall and the Mahayana bodhisattva Guanyin Hall of the Chongfu Temple in Shuozhou were built in the Jin dynasty, which is famous for its statues and murals.    Yuan architecture   Yuan Buddhist temples and Taoist palaces in southern Shanxi have world-renowned sculptures and dry fresco paintings. These dry fresco paintings are mostly the works of the painting school led by Zhu Haogu. This painting school with many famous painters was very active in southern Shanxi during that historic time. Fucheng Jade Emperor Temple in Jincheng has a phenomenal collection of twenty-eight personified constellations statues by sculptors in the Yuan dynasty.  Yongle Palace in Yuncheng has preserved dry fresco murals in unparalleled integrity in China. The palace is one of Three Great Ancestral Courts of the Quanzhen School of Taoism. The Homage to the First Principle Chaoyuan tu on the walls of the Yongle Palace are the largest mural paintings of Yuan dynasty in China. Some of these Shanxi mural paintings are now preserved in western museums. For example, Paradise of Bhaisajyaguru was originally housed in Guangsheng Lower Monastery, now in Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, United States; Homage to the First Principle, which depicts a procession of Daoist deities and their celestial attendants, sometimes referred to as Chaoyuan tu or the ‘Heavenly Court’, similarly in style as those found in the Yongle Palace, was originally housed in Wansheng Guan in Linfen then-named Pingyang Fu 平阳府. Paradise of Maitreya was originally housed in the Xinghua Temple of Xiaoning, Jishan County, Shanxi. Both paintings are now in the Royal Ontario Museum ROM of Toronto, Canada. However, the Wansheng Guan and the Xinghua Temple were both completely destroyed during the tumultuous second world war and Chinese civil war periods. Some of the fresco paintings are preserved. Longshan Grottoes in Taiyuan is the only grottoes site dedicated for Taoism in China.    Ming and Qing architecture  During the Ming and Qing dynasties, the Shanxi merchants accumulated enormous wealth, particularly through the international trade of tea to Russia and the development of draft banks, or Piaohao, which secured Shanxi as the financial center in the Qing dynasty. Pingyao ancient city is a well-preserved city with numerous ancient architectures. There are also a number of family complexes scattered throughout Shanxi that were built during these two dynasties, which are representative of vernacular architecture in North China. The notable Shanxi family complexes include:  Wang Family Compound in Lingshi, which is the largest of the Shanxi Courtyard Houses; Qiao Family Compound in Qi County; Qu Family Compound in Qi County; Chang Family Compound in Yuci; Cao Family Compound in Taigu; The Kung Family Residence in Taigu, where the family of H. H. Kung used to live; The Meng Family Courtyard in Taigu, later, this private family compound was transformed to the Ming Hsien school 铭贤学校, which is further incorporated as part of Shanxi Agricultural University; Shen Family Compound, 申家大院 in Changzhi.    Religious architecture  Other than the Yungang Grottoes and Tianlongshan Grottoes as two notable religious architectures, Mount Wutai has the largest concentration of buddhist architectures in Shanxi, with temples constructed throughout thousands of years from the Tang dynasty to modern days. In Southern Shanxi, Qinglian Temple in Jincheng, and Guangsheng Temple in Hongtong County are among the most notable religious architectures.    Yaodong   Yaodong is a special form of vernacular architecture, commonly found in the Loess Plateau in North China. Yaodong are commonly seen in the mountainous areas of Shanxi, in contrast to the more elaborate aforementioned family compounds, which are usually found in flat plains or basins of Shanxi. Yaodong is a type of earth shelter, usually carved out of a hillside. Sometimes, Yaodong can be found in relatively flat areas with the entire central courtyard dug out from the flat land, and then the rooms are carved from the surrounding walls. The earth shelter serves as a good insulator and keeps the indoor space cool in hot summers and warm in cold winters.    References"@"Shanxi architecture"@"Group2"  
"Hokkien architecture, also called Hoklo architecture or Minnan architecture, refers to the architectural style of the Hoklo people, a Han Chinese sub-group who have historically been the dominant demographic of the Southern Chinese province of Fujian called Hokkien in the Hoklo language, and Taiwan, Singapore. This style shares many similarities with those of surrounding Han Chinese groups. There are, however, several features that are unique or mostly unique to Hoklo-made buildings, making many traditional buildings in Hokkien and Taiwan visually distinctive from those outside the region.    Minyue architecture  Prior to the annexation of the Minyue Kingdom by the Han dynasty, the region was inhabited by the Minyue people, a branch of the Baiyue aboriginals. The Minyue State's Imperial City Traditional Chinese: 閩越王城遺址 gave some clues about what their architectural style was like.    Swallowtail roof   Swallowtail roof Pe̍h-ōe-jī: ìnn-bé-tsiah; Traditional Chinese: 燕尾脊, literally swallowtail ridge is a feature rarely if at all seen in non-Hoklo Han Chinese architecture. It is very common in Hokkien and Taiwan. The term refers to a roof that has an upward-curving ridge shaped like the tail of a swallow. The degree of curving may vary. The swallowtail in question can be single- or double-layered and is typically decorated with a large amount of colorful carvings. This feature originated in 16th century Ming Dynasty. At that time, Hoklo people were  doing business with Southeast Asia, Taiwan, Ryukyu Ryūkyū-kan and Japan, and decided that they would like to show off their newfound wealth - resulting in this bright and elaborate architectural style. Due to its bright and showy nature, this architectural feature is commonly found in major temples, mansions, and ancestral halls.    Cut porcelain carving  Cut porcelain carving Pe̍h-ōe-jī: Tsián-huî-tiau; Traditional Chinese: 剪瓷雕, literally cut porcelain carving is also prevalent among Hoklo architecture and, to a lesser extent, Vietnamese architecture. Traditionally, Hoklo porcelain artists would often gather small colored porcelain artifacts such as bowls and other eating utensils, cut andor grind them into smaller fragments, and then paste these fragments onto sculptures attached to buildings for the purpose of decoration. This art is frequently used on the ridges, window frames, and doors of temples and larger residences, often in conjunction with swallowtail roof. The topic of these sculptures may vary - ranging from plants and animals to figures from Chinese mythology or Hoklo folktales. In Taiwan, a new style has even been formed by combining cut porcelain carving with cochin ware.    Hokkien Sanheyuan   Sanheyuan Pe̍h-ōe-jī: Sam-ha̍h-īnn; Traditional Chinese: 三合院, literally Three-combo building is a type of building found throughout most of the Greater China region. They are residences with structures on three sides of a courtyard, forming an inverted U-shape. While this style is shared by nearly all Han Chinese groups, Hokkien Sanheyuan have been noted by their usage of multiple wings called protecting dragons in Taiwan to spread outward, a trait quite distinctive to Hoklo Sanheyuan.    Têng-á-kha  Têng-á-kha Pe̍h-ōe-jī: Têng-á-kha; Traditional Chinese: 亭仔跤 is a style of architecture found in much of Southern China and is considered the Hokkien counterpart to the Cantonese tong lau. It is a style that incorporates elements from Western European architecture, arising slowly in late 18th century due to the Hokkien contact with Western European culture in Southeast Asia. A typical têng-á-kha has a ground floor used for running some sort of business such as a grocery store and upper floors that are used for residential purposes. Amoy's têng-á-khas are said to be marked by having pink and white as main colorings, use of streets full of têng-á-khas such as markets, and the distribution of têng-á-khas in net-like structures. The city of Chinchew has also been noted for having a well-preserved set of têng-á-khas.    Others     Hokkien earthen buildings   Hokkien earthen buildings Pe̍h-ōe-jī: Hok-kiàn thóo-lâu; Traditional Chinese: 福建土樓, literally Hokkien earthen building, called Fujian Tulou in Mandarin Chinese, is another distinct type of architecture found in the Hokkien region. It is a set of large, enclosed and fortified earth buildings associated with the Hakka people, who speak the Hakka language, rather than Hoklo. However, it has been noted that this style of architecture is found almost exclusively among Hakka people in Fujian province and thus has become associated with the region.    In Modern Architecture     See also  Architecture of Taiwan Architecture of Singapore Cantonese architecture Hakka architecture Architecture of Jiangxi Chinese architecture    References     Bibliography  Knapp, Ronald G. 2019. China's Old Dwellings. University of Hawaii Press.    News articles  Exhibition sheds light on architectural influence between Fujian, Singapore. The Straits Times online. 2019-10-28. Retrieved 2022-07-09."@"Hokkien architecture"@"Group2"
"Architecture of Tibet contains influences from neighboring regions but has many unique features brought about by its adaptation to the cold, generally arid, high-altitude climate of the Tibetan plateau. Buildings are generally made from locally available construction materials, and are often embellished with symbols of Tibetan Buddhism. For example, private homes often have Buddhist prayer flags flying from the rooftop. Religious structures fall into two main types: temples, which are used for religious ceremonies and worship; and stupas Chörtens, which are reliquaries and symbols. Temples gompas come in a great variety of styles, generally reflecting local architectural traditions. The design of the Tibetan Chörtens can vary, from roundish walls in Kham to squarish, four-sided walls in Ladakh. Secular structures in Tibet include private homes, multi-family dwellings, and shops. Some herding families live in tents for part of the year, although people who live in tents year-round are becoming rare due to government programs to encourage or require herdsmen to move into permanent housing. Manor homes that belonged to the Tibetan aristocracy before 1949 have all but disappeared from the Tibetan plateau; however at least one, Namseling Manor in Dranang County, Lhoka Prefecture, which dates from the 14th century, has been restored. Typically, Tibetan structures are constructed of natural materials such as stone, clay, and wood. Since 1980, concrete has also come into use but so far is not widespread. The most desirable building sites are on elevated land facing south. Flat roofs are used in most parts of the central and western Tibetan plateau where rainfall is slight; however in the eastern Tibetan plateau where summer rains are heavier, sloping roofs, covered either in slate, shingles, or increasingly ceramic tile, are popular in some regions. In prosperous agricultural areas, private homes may have up to three stories. In herding areas where houses may be used only part of the year, they usually have only one story. Walls that are constructed of stone or rammed earth may be up to a meter thick at the base. In large structures such as temples and manor homes, walls slope inward to create an illusion of greater height. Windows are usually small because the walls are so heavy that large openings would make the structure weak and unstable. In the past, windows featured paper-covered wooden latticework, but nowadays almost universally use glass.     Residential housing  The highest-grade residences in the past, of course, are the residences of the Dalai Lama and the Panchen Lama. The residences of these officials are very grand, large in scale and rigorous in layout. The main building is three or four stories high. The ground floor is for chores. The second floor is the living room for the whole family. The hall is located in a prominent position on the second floor. The south floor of the main building is used to form a spacious courtyard. The general officials and the manor house have no gallery.    World Heritage Site  Standing at 117 meters in height and 360 meters in width, the Potala Palace, designated as a World Heritage Site in 1994 and extended to include the Norbulingka area in 2001, is considered  a most important example of Tibetan architecture. Formerly the residence of the Dalai Lama, it is said to have over a thousand rooms within its thirteen stories, used for both religious purposes and as the former seat of the Tibetan government and home of the Dalai Lama, who was Tibet's head of state until 1959. It is divided into the outer White Palace, which serves as the administrative quarters and living quarters of the Dalai Lama, and the inner Red Palace, which houses the Great West Hall, chapels, shrines, and Buddhist scriptures.    Traditional architecture   Traditional Kham architecture is seen in most dwellings in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture. Although the region has been previously heavily logged, wood is still harvested locally from remaining stands of forest and used for housing. Throughout the region, horizontal timber beams support the roof and are in turn supported by wooden columns. In some areas such as Dêgê County, Baiyü County, and Dawu County, Sichuan, wood is also used to make log-cabin style exterior walls. Home interiors  are sometimes paneled with wood and cabinetry is ornately decorated. Ganzi is known for its  wooden houses  built in  a range of styles and lavishly decorated with wooden ornamentation.  Although various  materials are used in the well-built houses, it is the skillful carpentry that is most striking. Farm houses in Kham are often very spacious although the first ground floor is usually used to house farm implements and animals, not for human habitation.  Floors,  ceilings, and room dividers are made of wood. Carpentry skills are passed down from master to apprentice. Traditional Tibetan building practices are threatened by the increasing use of concrete, which can be cheaper than natural materials and requires less skill. Traditional homes are regarded by some upwardly mobile Tibetans as backward, and towns and cities are increasingly dominated by apartment buildings.  Earthquakes are also a threat to traditional Tibetan houses, which often contain insufficient horizontal ties to keep the columns and roof stable during a seismic event.    Religious architecture   China's Cultural Revolution resulted in the deterioration or loss of Buddhist monasteries, both by intentional destruction or through lack of protection and maintenance. Starting in the 1980s, Tibetans began to restore or rebuild damaged temples and revive monastic traditions. Tashi Lhunpo Monastery shows the influence of Mongol architecture. Changzhug Monastery is one of the oldest in Tibet, said to have been first built in the 7th century during the reign of King Songtsen Gampo 605–650 CE. Jokhang was also originally built under Songsten Gampo. Tsurphu Monastery was founded by the first Karmapa, Düsum Khyenpa 1110–1193 in 1159, after he visited the site and laid the foundation for an establishment of a seat there by making offerings to the local protectors, dharmapala and genius loci. In 1189 he revisited the site and founded his main seat there. The monastery grew to hold 1000 monks.  Tsozong Gongba Monastery is a small shrine built around the 14th century AD. Palcho Monastery was founded in 1418 and known for its kumbum which has 108 chapels on its four floors. Chokorgyel Monastery, founded in 1509 by Gendun Gyatso, 2nd Dalai Lama once housed 500 monks but was completely destroyed during the Cultural Revolution. Ramoche Temple is an important temple in Lhasa. The original building complex  was strongly influenced by Tang dynasty architectural style as it was first built by Han Chinese architects in the middle of the 7th century. Princess Wencheng took charge of this project and ordered the temple be erected facing east to show her homesickness. Monasteries such as the Kumbum Monastery continue to be affected by Chinese politics. Simbiling Monastery was completely flattened in 1967, although it has to some degree been restored. See List of Tibetan monasteries.    See also  Tibetan Buddhist architecture Tibetan culture Architecture of Bhutan    External links  Kham Aid Foundation – Gallery of Vernacular Tibetan Architecture Himalayan Vernacular Architecture- Technische Universität Berlin    References"@"Architecture of Tibet"@"Group2"